# Ecoflow Node Red module

A Node Red module that allows conversion and aggregation of MQTT data generated
by Ecoflow devices. Via the ecoflow-cmd node, very limited control over the
PowerStream micro inverter is supported.

The aggregation currently concentrates on main core vital values for the system
PowerStream in combination with a power station. There are plans to expand this
project, but for now, there is nothing more. Contributions are welcome.

## Supported device types

In the editor for the node, you need to configure your device type. The following
devices are currently supported:
* Ecoflow PowerStream micro inverter from binary MQTT messages to user-readable
  JSON (ecoflow-in) as well as generation of MQTT out message to control certain
  settings of the device (ecoflow-cmd).
* Ecoflow Delta 2 Max power station (aggregation only, as data is transmitted
  already in JSON format). Only supported by ecoflow-in.

## Node "ecoflow-in"

The ecoflow-in node receives MQTT messages and provides user-readable and
aggregated JSON messages.

### Output message types

In the editor of the node, you can configure the "Output message types". This defines
the types of messages generated by this node from the binary (buffer) input messages
received via MQTT. The following types exist:
* Aggregated only: Only the aggregated information as JSON is generated (see below)
* Translated only: Only the binary message translation to JSON is generated,
  this contains the binary data translated to human-readable JSON.
* Both: Both types of messages listed above are generated by this plugin.

### Aggregated information

As the input data consists of different values that are updated by different
messages in different intervals, it comes in handy to have an aggregated messages
that combines the current values of all relevant variables. Additionaly, there
is an associated timeout for each input variable that resets it back to zero if
it is not updated anymore (e.g. the sending device looses network connection or
has no power).

This section describes the generated aggregated information by the node. The
aggregated messages have a topic to which "/aggregated" is appended as suffix.

#### Device type "PowerStream"

* batInputVolt: The charging state of the connected battery, in volts.
* batSoc: The charging state of the connected battery, in percent. Note:
  this value is updated very rarely, so it can take a few minutes until it becomes
  available.
* batInputWatts: The power (in watts) coming from the battery to the inverter
  to be fed into the household network (positive value) or going from the
  inverter to charge the battery (negative value).
* invOutputWatts: The watts fed into the household network by the inverter.
* pv1InputWatts: The watts generated by the solar module plugged into PV1 input.
* pv2InputWatts: The watts generated by the solar module plugged into PV2 input.
* pv1OpVolt: The voltage generated by the solar module plugged into PV1 input.
* pv2OpVolt: The voltage generated by the solar module plugged into PV2 input.
* pvInputWatts: The watts generated by the solar module plugged into PV1+PV2 input.

#### Device type "Delta 2 Max"

* bms_emsStatus_f32LcdShowSoc: The overall charging state of the battery
  (average, if you have multiple batteries).
* bms_bmsStatus_f32ShowSoc: The charging state of the power station internal battery.
* bms_bmsStatus_vol: The charging state of the power station internal battery,
  in volts.
* bms_kitInfo_watts0: the power going out (positive value) or coming in (negative
  value) from the first battery connector (external battery, micro inverter, etc.)
* bms_kitInfo_watts1: the power going out (positive value) or coming in (negative
  value) from the second battery connector (external battery, micro inverter, etc.)
* mppt_inWatts: the power coming in from the PV solar panel in plug 1.
* mppt_pv2InWatts: the power coming in from the PV solar panel in plug 2.
* mppt_pvInputWatts: the combined power coming in from all PV solar panels attached
  directly to the power station.
* inv_inputWatts: the power station internal inverter, input power.
* inv_outputWatts: the power station internal inverter, output power.

### Connect MQTT

Use a regular MQTT input for Node Red. Forward that input to the ecoflow-powerstream
function defined by this plugin.

#### Get login details

Use [this bash script](https://github.com/mmiller7/ecoflow-withoutflow/blob/main/cloud-mqtt/ecoflow_get_mqtt_login.sh)
to get your login details. It will spit out protocol, host, port, username and password
(and a lot more information you don't need right now). Alternatively, you can use
[this web site](https://energychain.github.io/site_ecoflow_mqtt_credentials/).

#### Configure the MQTT input node

Add a new server, configure as follows:

Tab "Connection":
* Server: host from bash script output, e.g. mqtt-e.ecoflow.com
* Port: port from bash script output, e.g. 8884
* Connect automatically: yes
* TLS: yes
* Protocol: MQTT V3.1.1
* Client-ID: output from bash script
* Keep-Alive: 60
* Clean session: yes

Tab "Security":
* User name from bash script output
* Password from bash script output

Back in the "mqtt in" node, set:
* Action: Subscribe to single topic
* Topic: "/app/device/property/" + PowerStream serial number
* QoS: 0
* Output: binary buffer


## Node "ecoflow-cmd"

The ecoflow-cmd node allows you to send commands to the device to change settings.
Currently, only the Ecoflow PowerStream micro inverter is supported.

### Node settings

Configure your node in the editor as follows:
* Device type: Set to "PowerStream 600/800 micro inverter"
* User ID: Set to the "Numerical User-ID" provided by the bash script (see "Get login
  details" above). The ID is formed of around 19 digits.

### Node flow

On the input side of the ecoflow-cmd node, you need to generate a message that
defines which value to set. See "Message format" below.

On the output side, you need the messages generated by the ecoflow-cmd node to an
MQTT output. Configure the mqtt out node as follows:
* Server: the Ecoflow MQTT server (same as for the ecoflow-in node, see above).
* Topic: (leave the Topic empty)
* QoS: 1
* Retain: false

### Message format

The input message to the ecoflow-cmd node needs to be a JSON message. This JSON
needs to have exactly the following properties:
* deviceSn: the serial number of the device you want to control.
* command: the command ID (see below) defining the message type you want to generate.
* value: the numerical value argument to the command.

The following commands exist:
* getLatestQuotas: Get the latest quotas (value is not relevant).
* setAcWatts: Set the egress power in watts to be fed into the household.
* setPrioritizePowerStorage: Set to 1 to send all PV power to the battery, and
  only when the battery is full, the superfluous power is fed into the
  household. Set to 0 to prioritize the egress into the household: As long
  as there is power in PV and/or the battery, it is fed into the household
  network up to the limit configured by setAcWatts, the superfluous power is
  used to charge the battery.
* ping: Send a Ping command.
